<!-- image -->

To

## UNIVERSITYOFHYDERABAD

## NOTIFICATION

Sub:Policy for conducting Short-Term Courses,Skill-Based Courses, Workshops,FDP,MDP,etc.,-Reg.

- dated29.6.2019.

- 2.NotificationNo.UH/CE/2020dated29.5.2020oftheControllerof Examinations.

- 3.Report of Committee No.464/29.7.2020.

4. Vice-Chancellor's approval dated 29.8.2020.

Iamdirected tonotifythePolicy forconductingShort-Term Courses,Skillbased Courses,Workshops,FDP,MDP,etc.

The University has embarked upon an ambitious plan to leverage the CategoryI Graded Autonomy(GA) conferred uponby the University Grants Commission(UGC) topropel theUniversity to the next level of Academic Excellence,while adhering to its corevalues of equity,social justice and affordable highereducation for the needy.

The Committee Constituted vide Notification cited 2nd has framed Policy for Conducting Short-Term Courses, Skil-Based Courses,Workshops,FDP,MDP etc., under the Chairmanship of Pro-Vice-Chancellor-l,which were approved by the ViceChancellor.

courses,workshops,FDP,MDP,etc.,byfaculty/staff membersofniversityhave beenframedasper the enclosedAnnexure.

This Policy comes into force with effect from the date of issue of this Notification.

(P. SardaNSingh) Registrar

<!-- image -->

- 1.All theFaculty/StaffMembersthroughrespectiveHeadsof theAcademic/ Administrative Units.
2. DR/AR/SO/PRO/DevelopmentSection,F&amp;A
3. OSD/PStotheVice-Chancellor/PVC-I/PVC-2
4. Webmaster-with a request toplace on theUniversityWebsite.
5. Director CC/CNF - with a request to send to all faculty / staff members by email.

Officeof theRegistrar, DevelopmentSection Dt:1.9.2020

## Annexure

## UNIVERSITYOFHYDERABAD

Prof.C.R.Rao Road,Gachibowli,Hyderabad,Telangana-500046

## WORKSHOPS,FDP,MDP,ETC.

## INTRODUCTION

University of Hyderabad has launched an ambitious plan to leverage the Category-I Graded Autonomy (GA) conferred upon by the University Grants Commission (UGC) to take the University to the next level of academic excellence, while adhering to its core values of equity, social justice, and affordable higher education for the needy.

In statutory meetingsit wasresolved that funds underStudentWelfare,Academic and Research Grant (SWARG) tobe created which will befunded by additional revenues to be generated by the University through self-financed skill-based courses, innovative degree programmes, and other collaborative programmes. These new self-financed courses, some of them online, to be developed by the University will address the needs of working professionals and others who will be able to attend classes in the evenings and weekends, without added burden on the hostels and classrooms. In the present scenario,UoH is also seeking ways to raise internal resources,in particular to strengthen SWARG initiative. This fund will go towards enhanced fellowships for PhD students, financial support for students from weaker sections, and for strengthening the skills of students to makethemmore employable.

Such regular short-courses will complement regular courses taken elsewhere, and in the process, boost human resources and skills across the board. The scope for short-courses should be modular, focused skill development and state-of-the-art training.Professionalscan thenbetteridentifywith the top-class institutes like UoH and the brand-equity of the latter can, well, boost their careers and lead to improved training and development.Members of thepublic do also need access to talks and seminars for broad-based life-long learning,to better identify with society,and on various novel subjects for a broadening of the mind. Such week-end courses, talks and seminars, that do not insist on prior knowledge would make perfect societal sense.

## A.General

- b. These programmes can be conducted on campus/off campus either in face-toface/online/blendedformat.

## POLICY

- a.These self-financed programme are to be offered utilizing UoH's inherent strength, ranking andvisibilityfor deliveryofhighvalue content and to create awareness about the current areasrequired by the society.
- C. Such programmes under no circumstance should affect the normal assigned teaching/research/administrative duties.
- The Policies will be applicable retrospectively for the programmes organized during e. theCOVID-19lockdown/unlockperiod.
- d. Both academic and non-academic units are allowed to conduct these programmes.

## B.Approval Process/CompetentAuthority

- b. DeansofAcademicUnits,DirectorsoftheIndependent Centre,REGISTRAR,FO,CE, CC/CNF,Librarian,IQAC of their units areAuthorized Signatories and empowered to endorse proposal to run these self-financed programmes of their unit.
2. a.Programmes where Certification is required, should be duly discussed/deliberated and agreed upon in the Departmental Committee/School Board and other Statutory Bodies as applicable [like FDPs etc].
3. Proposal has to be approved by the Authorized Signatories based on its relevance, C. innovativeness andviability.
4. d.Proposal are to be submitted in prescribed format with clear expenditure budget details.

## C.Proposal Guidelines/Format

- b. Programmes can be delivered face-to-face or online (synchronous and asynchronous) orinblendedmode.
- a. It is desirable that more than 50% of the experts for the programme should be drawn from UoH internal pool of resource persons.Alumni are also to be encouraged as resourcepersons.
- C. Programmes are to be held at a time and venue without interfering with Central Time Table (CTT) nor space required for normal semester teaching of UoH.
4. i.Minimum 20% of the Revenue should be assured for the University.
- d. Programmes can be jointly conducted in specialised skills of more than 3 month duration with well-established Institutes/Organisations, based on infrastructure, resources, lab available there. There will be joint coordinator for such programmes. Following guidelines are mandated:
- ii. Agreement to be signed, clearly specifying the role/responsibility of the each.
7. iv.All arrangements to be made by external organization.
- ii. Can be organized within or outside the University campus.
- e. Candidates admitted to be based on some relevant eligibility criteria and experience (case to case), to form a balanced homogeneous group for effective delivery of the lectures in a programmes.
10. f.The programmes should be planned for a minimum duration of 3 hrs.
11. g.It is suggested that there should not be any ceiling on the number of lectures to be handled by any of the resource person.
- h. Programme to be deferred/closed if the projected viability falls below the expected targets.
1. Structure for theProposal
- i. Category:Name of theProgramme
15. ii.Target Audience:A short note on relevance
- ii. Theme
- iv. Type:
2. Certificate of Participation
1. CertificateofAttendance
20. 3.Certification ofAchievement
- V. Schedule
22. Vi. Eligibility Criteria [+ Experience, if any]
- viii. Budget Details
- vii. Resource persons [Internal/External]
- ix. Special Requirement [if any]

## D.Coordinator Guidelines/Benefits

- a. Coordinator/Co-Coordinatorof theprogramme should have distinction toattract participants.
- b. The Coordinator/Co-Coordinatorwill beeligiblefor the CoordinatorsHonorarium and also theResourcePersonsHonorarium.
- d. Faculty will get due recognition for providing such specialized services needed in all areasof facultypromotionin terms ofAPI score.
- C. Undernocircumstances the Coordinator/Co-Coordinator shouldimpede on their duties and responsibilities to the University, i.e., affect the normal teaching/research/administrative duties.
- e. %oftime thatcanbedevoted tosuchactivitymaybelimited tooneday/quarter of month during office hours or by applying necessary leaves due, except duty leave. However, to be permitted during weekends and after office-hours.
- g. The total aggregated honorarium (Not including FPDF, but includes honorarium for lectures) of the Coordinator/Co-Coordinator (as Resource persons),in a year, for undertaking such self-financed programmes to be limited to 30% of their annual gross salary. NOTE: If over 30% of the gross salary then distribution is 70:30 and if above 100% of annual gross salary then distribution is 50:50 (between Faculty:University). This is inline and will be subject to the revision of the Consultancy Guidelines of UoH.
- f. Coordinator/Co-Coordinator'shonorariumwill be deposited intoFacultyProfessional Development Funds (FPDF).
8. E.Budget Details: To cover in-house Resource Persons, Outside Resource Persons,Logistics （travel &amp; stay) for outside Resources persons, Additional e-teaching material like Case Studies/Printed Notes etc, following components are recommended that provides details of all the expenditure to be budgeted subject to the viability of the self-financed programmes:
9. a.Budget Templates[Annexure-1]
10. i.Face-to-Face
11. 1.Synchronous
12. ii.Online
13. 2.Asynchronous
14. i.Viability of the programme is defined as: R=FxN=E+S
15. b.Viability Model:
- ii. For E:S:50:50 then R = 2E
17. ii.For E:S:60:40 then R = 1.67E
18. iV.
19. ForE:S::70:30thenR=1.43E
20. V.
21. vi.General Model for E:S:We:Ws, then R = (We + Ws)E/WE
22. ForE:S::80:20 thenR=1.25E
- d. Sharing model based on type of programme have to be strictly complied with. Expenditure (E): Surplus (S) model will vary from 80:20, 70:30, 60:40 or 50:50, depending on the duration, number of students, fee structure etc.
- C. Minimum number of participants for the programme to be worked out based on the proportions discussed earlier (i.e. 50:50 or 60:40 or 70: 30 etc)
25. Minimum prescribed norms are to be complied with, for expenditure under various e. Heads, while preparing Budget Details.
26. Maximum Honorarium payable to a resource person is the following, subject to the g. viability model of the programme:
- f. Each lecture is assumed to be for an hour duration.
- i.  Internal resource person: up to Rs 7,500 for a lecture/hour.
- h. All University resources are to be charged, for example: photocopying, phone, venue costs, Internet as per bandwidth utilization, etc.
30. ii.External resource person: up to Rs 10,000 for a lecture/hour.
31. 1.
- J. Taxes as applicable should be included under expenditure budget.
33. Honorarium for the Research scholar/ Non-teaching staff etc., who assisted the Coordinator to be factored @ Rs 500 per hour under the expenditure budget head.
- F. Distribution Model: It is suggested that the Surplus (S) after meeting Expenditure (E) from the Revenue (R) [Generated], the Distribution Model (in percentages) will be the following:
- b. Student Welfare Academic and Research Grant (SWARG) [20%]. [As approved by FC/EC].
36. a.University Corpus (UC) [40%]. [As approved by FC/EC].
- C. School's Academic Development Fund (SADF) [20%]. 50% of SADF will be shared with FPDF as per EC resolution. Share of SADF should also record the affiliation of the Coordinator to the Academic Unit so that the shared SADF funds are utilized only by that Academic Unit.
38. d.Creation of a funds for a self-supporting new coordinating centre, envisage for future[20%].
39. G.Certification modes: For self-financed programmes, after successful completion of the requirements mandated for such a proposed a programme, following two types of completion transcripts/documents arerecommended:
- i. Certificate of Attendance: is an official document proving the attendance of a person in a lecture class(es) duration of a 1/2 day or for a few days. This type of certificate does not provide proof of learning, that is, no knowledge is assessed before such a certificate is issued.
- a. Certificate program typically indicates attendance or completion of a course or series of courses with a specific focus. They are open to newcomers and experienced professionals alike. The result demonstrates delivery of content at the end of a specific period of time. It can be of two types:
- ii. Certificate of Participation: is an official document providing proof of learning, as we assess the knowledge gained towards the end of the event before such a certificate is issued.It is a special acknowledgement award certificate for participation in short-course/Skill-based course of a week or 2 weeks duration, graded as Excellent, V Good, Good etc, where a small presentation is to be madetowards the end of theprogramme.
43. i.Continuous Assessment: Weekly Test to include Short quiz, take home short
- b. Certification of Achievement: Certification is more valuable and recognized achievement whichcan havea validityperiod say2-3years.Certification is a credential that one earns to show that they have specific skills or knowledge. Certification includes an experience and education component and requires passing an exam. It is suggested that an awardee be allowed to put letters after his or her name (UHCP? for being certified as a University of Hyderabad Certified Professional). In addition certification requires re-certification,which ensures that practitioners stay current in their field through continuing education. To be eligible for certification following is suggested assessment process:
45. project/problems,Lab test [where applicable]
46. iii.. Weightages{60:40]
- ii. Final Offline/Online Test
48. iv.Award Percentage/Grade [A, B, C and F], including rank.

where:

R:Revenue

F:Fee

N:Number of Candidates admitted

E: Expenditure

S:Surplus

Annexure-1

|                                                        | COST ININR                                                                                                                                                                                                       |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
|--------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| UNIT COST                                              | Rs 5,000-Rs 10000 per lecture. Rs 3000-Rs 7,500 per lecture.                                                                                                                                                     |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| A:HUMAN RESOURCE COSTS ITEMDESCRIPTION UoH Faculty One | Contact Course Venue costs (Univ.Resource/Hotel etc) B:OFFICE RUNNING COSTS UoH Faculty Two Guest Faculty One Guest Faculty Two Office Stationery OfficeMailing Costs Offce Photocopying C:COURSE COSTS Internet | A+B+C+D GRAND TOTAL+TAXESASAPPLICABLE Decoration of the hall banners, lowers, et) Incidental Expenses (Attender chargestc) D:ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS Airport Transfers CourseKitStationey Finance & Accounts Photocopying Certificates |

A:HUMAN RESOURCE COSTS

| COST ININR                       |                                                                                                                                                                           |
|----------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| UNITS (Hrs., Days, Nos. etc)     |                                                                                                                                                                           |
| UNIT COST                        |                                                                                                                                                                           |
|                                  | GuestFaculty Conveyance(Air/Train/Bus etc) Incidental Expenses(Attender charges,etc)                                                                                      |
| ITEM DESCRIPTION UoH Faculty One | E:ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS Miscellaneous or Contingencies Airport Transfers CourseKit/Material D:LIVE HOSTING Multimedia Software Finance& Accounts Photocopying Certificates |

<!-- image -->

| COST ININR                              |                                                     |                                         |                                                |                                                    |                |                                                                                    |                                          |                                        |
|-----------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------|----------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|
| UNITS (Hrs., Days, Nos. )               |                                                     |                                         |                                                |                                                    |                |                                                                                    |                                          |                                        |
| UNIT COST                               |                                                     |                                         |                                                |                                                    |                |                                                                                    |                                          |                                        |
| A:HUMAN RESOURCE COSTS ITEM DESCRIPTION | UoH Faculty Two Guest Faculty One Guest Faculty Two | Offce Mailing Costs Office Photocopying | Food for Guest Faculty C:COURSE COSTS Internet | Airport Transfers Course Kit/Material Certificates | D:LIVE HOSTING | Online Course Web Hosting & Maintenance Charges (One Online Course Web Maintenance | E:ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS Finance& Accounts | A+B+C+D+EGRAND TOTAL+TAXESASAPPLICABLE |
|                                         |                                                     |                                         |                                                | Photocopying                                       |                |                                                                                    |                                          |                                        |
|                                         | B:OFFICE RUNNING COSTS UoH Faculty One              | Office Stationery                       |                                                |                                                    |                |                                                                                    | year)                                    |                                        |